---
layout: post
title: "We are all miracles."
description: "Luck, the sparkling luck."
tags: [thoughts]
---

Roughly a year or two ago, an article went viral on Wechat. The article was shared 10,0000+ times within an hour of its publishment. Nearly half of my 'friends' on Wechat were sharing the article. What article then, you may ask, has such magical power? No, the article itself isn't particularly rhetoric, nor is the author famous (with average views on the hundred level for the other pieces she wrote). The article is about luck. The author described how lucky she had been and the achievements she had made, and claimed that she is a person of "锦鲤命" (Koi is a symbol of luck in many Asian cultures). Thus, by sharing her article, one can also be as lucky as she had been.

You see, luck is a seemingly illusory thing that almost everyone is chasing after. I didn't share the article as most of my friends did at the time. I'm not claiming this fact to show that I am wiser than my peers, as I understand that people need emotional sustenance, especially during difficult times. The difference may be, deep inside, I always know how lucky I have been growing up.

I remember the several times when I had a brush with death. I remember how blessed I was to be admitted by the best middle school in the district I lived in. I remember how exhilarated I felt when I got into the talented class in my high school. And many, many more. 

However, there is another side of the story. I can also see myself as extremely unlucky. I can blame myself (and sometimes even my parents) for being careless and clumsy (I am still clumsy today hahaha). I can blame the government for changing the policy for entering middle school out of the blue. <sup>[1](#footnote1)</sup> I can blame myself for not performing well in the high school entrance exams as I got the lowest score I ever had for both English and Chinese.

The funny thing about life is, you'll never know if one thing is beneficial to you or not from a local perspective. I can say that most of us are all extremely lucky just to be alive and healthy. I can also say that we are all extremely unlucky because we will always encounter bitterness and sorrow when alive. As an individual, though, I can always choose which side of the coin I want to interpret things from.

2020 is a tough year. I've shed tears, went through heartbreaks, got overwhelmed with grieves, and fought with anxieties. But I've also had so many touches of laughter and joys, seeing the world through a different lens with gratitude, letting go of past wounds, learning to treat myself a little better, and understanding that I always have a choice. I don't know what 2021 will be like, but I know I will never forget how lucky I am, and how grateful I am for the things I already possess. And to my dear friend who is reading this article, I hope you can also recognize that: you are a miracle. 

<a name="footnote1">1</a>：I ranked second in my primary school in the graduation test, which was supposed to be used as the standard for determining which school each person can go to, at least in previous years. Instead, the test results got forfeited, and the government asked each school to perform individual recruiting. I didn't even get a chance to take the tests for many schools because I was not a class 'leader'. I was given the opportunity to take the test for the school I eventually went to because it was the first year my school was recruiting. My family wouldn't even know the school if it was not located close to where my dad worked.