---
layout: post
title: "Crossed Paths"
description: "To the people in my life."
tags: [thoughts]
---

In April and July, I separately wrote down two notes in my personal journal, expressing my gratitude toward the enchanting people I met in my life. Whenever I look back on those notes today, I still feel a light touch of a feather to my heart. 

"I feel happy whenever I see that you're happy.", "Why do you think you need to be this and that to be loved? You're enough.", "We all make mistakes, and it's okay to forgive yourself.", "I don't think you're no longer capable of loving others. You just need time.", "The power of love is always within you.", "I'm here if you need somebody to talk.".

I don't dare to forget these words, as they taught me that love and care can be unconditional. They are the light that dragged me out of the swamp of darkness when my values were shattered, and sense of self crushed. Still, when I wrote down those thoughts, inside me, I held grudges toward those who had hurt me, even though I thought I had let things go. To be more precise, I held grudges toward myself because it was me who let those people take advantage of me. It was me who allowed them to cross my boundaries, over and over again. It is not until last night when I was reading *Antifragile* by *Nassim Nicholas Taleb* on how our bodies are naturally antifragile systems that would over-compensate a little during recovery, I realized all the growth I had stemmed from disturbances and chaos instead of comfort and flings. Of course, I'm not saying I'll be grateful for the people who did me wrong. There's a saying in Chinese called "以德报怨，何以报德", meaning, if we requite resentment with kindness, with what should we requite kindness? The real person I should apologize to, forgive, and thank is actually myself!

Forgiving myself empowered me to see my life from a third-person's perspective. Standing outside, I realized how stunning it is that my path has crossed with so many others'. As a person who grew up moving a lot, I always feel a slight sense of enviousness toward those who grew deep roots and maintained meaningful relationships, while people just come and go in my life. I get so used to it that I didn't even bother to put in too much effort in keeping my connections. After all, I feel comfortable staying by myself, and I have enough friends met through hobbies or shared friends to hang out with when I need social interactions. Though deep inside, I always know something is missing. 

To me, our feelings of unsatisfactions and grieves come from denying our desires because we are afraid that they would never be met. Just as I crave to be understood by others and yet choose to put on the mask so that even if I get rejected, I can tell myself that they don't know the real me. Just as how I crave for deep connections with people, and yet is still afraid of the pains it could cause by being vulnerable and opening up. Just as how I miss my lost friends, and yet never choose to make a move to reconnect with them. 

How much time do we really have? What can we lose if we make the first move? Why is being vulnerable courageous when we see it from others, but weak when we see it from us? Since quarantine started I could not help but ask myself these questions: What does it stop you from reaching out to your friends before the lockdown? Yeah, I do not deny things are more challenging when you cannot have in-person interactions with people separated thousands of miles away. But don't you remember the joy you had every time you reconnect with them through a video call? Can't you be a little creative when it comes to interacting with friends remotely?

So I reached out to my best friend in middle school a couple days ago, and asked her whether she would be free during the weekend to have a chat. Her response was positive. Honestly, I have no idea how the call will go, because we haven't really talked for 10 years, and our lives look entirely different now. But what's the worst outcome? I'll never speak to her again (as if I was really talking to her). On the brighter side, I may revive a long-lost friendship. The choice is simple, isn't it?

In the past, I have always been semi-pessimistic about crossed paths. As once my path crossed with others', separation wouldn't be far away. Imagine what would happen after two lines intersect. However, today I will say, the paths of ours are not straight lines. One day we might move apart, but it doesn't mean our paths won't cross again. Even they don't, an imprint is forever made on my soul.