---
layout: post
title: "Fractured foot and having the first surgery in my life"
description: "The experience and what I have learnt from it."
tags: [thoughts]
---

Back in February this year, I fell while bouldering and fractured my foot due to improper landing. During the three months of recovery, I’ve been pondering and reflecting a lot. Well, something people tend to do when they have excessive free time. However, if my thoughts only remain in my head, they have the lowest values. Hence, here I organized my thoughts into a post, for memorization and sharing purposes.

#Take good care of your body
This has probably been mentioned thousands of times but ignored by most people. We are just so used to a healthy, functioning body. The first month after my surgery, I had to spend more than three times the energy and time to finish things that were once so simple. Tasks cannot be more normal like washing dishes, doing laundry, cooking, and even going to the restroom. For about two weeks, my food has been alternations between yogurt, bread, protein powder, and bananas. As a person who loves food though not picky, it was bearable but definitely not enjoyable.

The most challenging days are the first three days after surgery, especially the night right after. I could barely walk with the side effect from general amnesia that I need a person to get me on a chair and pushed me to the restroom door. Then, I need to hold the door frame to prevent myself from falling. And this is only to satisfy my most basic need! As a highly independent person, that feeling of weakness and needing to rely on someone else is entirely odd to me. Together with the increasing pains, I can not say it was a pleasant experience. Another moment that left me a deep impression is when the doctor whom I asked a second opinion for, told me “Once it’s broken, it will never be the same again” after I asked him whether I’ll still be able to do high impact activities after my foot heals. My tears couldn’t help but fall along my face at the moment, and it was a bit embarrassing now that I think about it.

But I’m a person who’s quite stubborn sometimes. It didn’t take me long before I started to think: maybe it is true that my bones won’t be the same anymore, but I can correct my gait and strengthen related muscles to make up for the change. Not to mention that I’m still young, and I shall be recovering fast. There are certain things that I cannot control, but for whatever that I can control, I will work hard for them. Here, it leads to the second point that I want to talk about.

#Shift your perspective
If someone looks at the pure fact of my fracture, he or she probably wouldn’t say it’s a positive experience, but at a higher level, it does help me grow a lot. Before the incident, I have a rough idea that everybody can control and choose what they want to experience because there is hardly a single right way to interpolate something. Most of the time, what is real is only a reflection of our inner world, and we should all be responsible for our feelings. This is not to say we shall not have negative emotions, but more in the sense that we shall face our feelings and understand the cause behind it. Once we identify the reason, we can choose whatever way we want to react, and be responsible for our choice.

Several days after I was diagnosed as Lisfranc Fracture, I was immersed in anxiety and pains, blaming myself for my reckless act and over-trusting the doctor who misdiagnosed my injury so that I was left with only a short window time for seeking the best treatment. With all the scary cases I saw online, I feared that I would no longer be walking pain-free for the rest of my life. I could not stop finding papers and seeking similar cases because I did not want to accept the surgery plan my doctor gave me.

Were my emotions at the time normal? Yes, they couldn’t be more normal. However, they didn’t serve me at all. The only things they provided me were three sleepless nights. Therefore, after making up my mind that I would accept the surgery plan my doctor offered me, I told myself, it’s going to be okay, you’re stronger than you thought. Accept what has already happened, and do the best for what you can. Because of this thought, I started daily physical therapy three days after surgery to prevent muscle atrophy on my injured side of the body. Because of that thought, I no longer focused on what I could not do, but on places of improvement.  Because of that thought, the pains became less significant with everything getting better each day. Because of that thought, I began to realize that there are so many beautiful things we can appreciate in life.

#Be grateful for people who share kindness and offer help when you need them
Because my injury was misdiagnosed, I didn’t have enough time to prepare for the surgery. On the day of injury, the person who accompanied me from the start of the surgery to late-night that day is a very kindhearted coworker. I didn’t even know that she needed to pick her sister up at the airport that day untill checked in for the surgery. And honestly, even right now I don’t know what’s the best way to thank her sister, who flew over for an interview and stayed in my apartment till past 10 p.m. to help take care of me. Not to mention the friends who came and visited me, some came with food, some accompanied me for 10+ hours, some helped me dump trash, some did them all.

I began to wonder if I was too independent in the past since I always believed that relationships were brittle. Probably because I’ve been moving a lot my whole life, hopping between different cities as I grew up. People just come and go. I’ve always believed that I shall not expect anything from others, but to rely on myself. But it feels good to have someone accompany. If I see things from another perspective, I would be more than happy to help my friends when they need me because it’s a sign that they trust me, especially if the person is someone who doesn’t ask help often. I realized how lucky I am when I recalled the moments when others, whether close or not, showed me their kind hearts. They shine in this world full of indifference and malice that comes out of nowhere.

#Final Thoughts
If you’re here, thank you for taking your time to read this post. Ideally, I shouldn’t be sharing that many personal details. However, I just failed to take them out despite trying hard, so I would appreciate it if you could bear with the redundant information here. Second, I know pretty much all the ideas here are cliche. **The most difficult thing though is the consistency between knowing and doing. After all, we are just building frameworks and then tearing them down all the time in our whole life.** Anyways, I hope there is some useful information here. Of course, these are not the only things that I’ve been thinking after my surgery, but the other thoughts are not as related to the injury itself, so maybe I’ll share them in another post in the future. :)