---
layout: post
title: "Procrastination."
description: "Is procrastination necessarily a negative trait?"
tags: [thoughts]
---

I am aware that I haven't updated this blog for a while. Though I did not truly realize that it has been almost a month until I glanced over the last published article's timestamp. For sure, I can always argue that I have been relatively busy during the past few weeks. Though I am never a believer when people say, "I don't have time.", which implies that whatever they're excusing for is not a priority. It is nothing to be ashamed of. In my case, I just chose to spend more quality time with my family.

With that in mind, I found it miraculous when I encountered the idea that procrastination is not necessarily a bad trait. (I find it intriguing that whatever I might be reading in a book at one time, I can almost certainly find something happening in my life that connects to it. Our brains seem to be well-designed for seeing patterns and finding correlations.) To the author, humans do not procrastinate on critical tasks. The fact that we procrastinate tells us something about our feelings toward missions. Maybe we're just waiting for more information to come so we could make better judgments. Perhaps we're just not passionate enough about the jobs. Therefore, procrastination is only natural to human, and should not be treated as a flaw.   

The author's opinion reminds me of the musical I recently watched: *Hamilton*. Hamilton didn't wait because he was very passionate about the opportunities in front of him, and he would not throw away his shot. Personally, I do not procrastinate often, at least not when I was a college student. The process of finishing homework is similar to collecting stamps to me, so in that sense, I'm like a chipmunk storing up nuts. But I do tend to finish assignments that I prefer first even though they might be due at a later date, which somehow backed up the author's claim.


As for writing, I enjoy writing for many reasons. But if I have a lot of concerns about whether the readers will like it. Or, if I set up a goal that I HAVE to put up a blog post every week, then I start to see it as a mundane task. The joy got ripped away when I no longer feel the flow during writing, especially when I am constantly reminded how limited my vocabulary is as a non-native speaker. Maybe this is one reason why many people no longer enjoy their hobbies when they turn them into jobs.

Therefore, after finishing the last post, I decided only to write when I feel called to stick with my original intentions for writing. 

I used to live with a scarcity mindset, especially when competitions and comparisons are all over the place. I never felt that I was doing enough or making maximum usage of my time, and I was always anxious. I've recently become more aware when I'm comparing myself to others, understanding that what I see is not necessarily the truth. What serves for others may not help me. To me, life is both long and short, and we're always on an on-going journey of self-discovery.  It is a process of constant learning, and choosing to experience what we desire.  What we long for at the current moment may no longer be desirable many years down the road. There is no definite end. Even death is not the end since death is not the direct opposite of living. 

Of course, I'm not writing this post to justify procrastination. The point is to take another look at why we procrastinate. Suppose fear of potential consequences of the actions leads to procrastination. We can think about the worst outcomes and the best outcomes, and re-analyze the fear. If we're procrastinating because the tasks are not aligned with what we want to experience and whom we want to be in the long term. Think about why we put ourselves in the sitation, and what are things we could do to make things better in the future. I won't list all the possibilities here, but I hope you get what I'm trying to say here. And I hope you feel a little bit relieved as I did when I first saw the idea that procrastination is nothing wrong, as we've probably all blamed ourselves once for procrastinating for something.    