---
layout: post
title: "What is preventing me from becoming who I want to be?"
description: "My ego, my struggles, and my insecurities."
tags: [thoughts]
---

Dear reader, have you ever wondered why sometimes it seems like you're always the unlucky one? I certainly have, for many times actually. However, a recent aha moment made me start to believe; maybe, I'm the person who's chasing after the "back luck." 

Why? To explain, I want first to bring in the concept of *ego*. *Ego*, if searched on Google, has the meaning of "a person's sense of self-esteem or self-importance." To me, 'ego' is what prevents us from being who we truly want to be from the heart. *Ego* tends to do things that create instant self-gratification through belittling others, and is usually attached to external objects and concepts. From my own experiences, I can clearly notice a sense of alienation when I say things to satisfy my *ego*. It's a very bizarre feeling that I usually only get while dreaming, and it feels like another being controls my body, saying or doing things that I immediately regret. 

As far as I understand, *ego* is formed due to a lack of insecurities, and the need to find a sense of belonging. What I notice the most from others and myself is that what people put the most emphasis on tends to be a reflection of their biggest weakness. We push ourselves and look outward to find things that are considered *valuable* and *attractive* according to the social norm because of our insecurities or dissatisfaction. In the process, we develop our self-identifications around those *tags*. That's why we could feel hurt or angry when others are criticizing us on these labels.

So, why do I believe maybe I am the person who is chasing the unwanted? Because I'm trapped in the pitfall created by my ego! Let me explain. What I noticed about my behaviors is that often even before something happens, as long as I find some similarities of this yet-to-happen event with a past hurtful moment, my ego rings an alarm inside my brain and is ready to get into the fighting mode to protect itself. So what do I do? I look for signs to prevent another painful failure. However, if I'm looking for the negative signs, I would only find evidence that tells me things are going downhill. My brain does its job, filtering out unwanted information. How I behave will also be influenced, which will in turn, change the dynamics of my interactions with others. Thus, increasing the chance that things will go according to my expectations.

Luckily, I believe there is a way out. The key, though, is awareness(again). This probably explains why that in recent years, more and more people are getting into meditation. As it is a great way to help us see our thoughts from a third-person's perspective so that we can unravel ourselves from the limiting beliefs. It can also help us understand and accept our own emotions so they can go away naturally instead of being suppressed. 

Another critical factor is to be affirmative of our values, more of which I discussed in a previous [post](https://sunfish2010.github.io/posts/love-yourself). 

Finally, we shall keep in mind that we can control our own behaviors at best, so letting go of the desire for predictability (to a certain extent) and unnecessary expectations can save us many hassles. 

I know it is easier said than done. Trust me, I've fallen back to my old patterns so many times. We are all imperfect human beings with various struggles and insists, and I hope one day, we can look back and say to ourselves: "I'm glad that I never truly give up." :)