---
layout: post
title: "Can I be 'Peter Pan' forever?"
description: "What it costs to grow up."
tags: [thoughts]
---

Mid March this year, my mom flew over to take care of me after my surgery. Two days after she arrived, the California government announced a 'Shelter in Place' order, and we started our quarantine life together. 

At first, I was cheerful because I don't usually get a chance to stay with my mom for an extended period of time after college. Not to mention, life did become a lot easier after she came. I no longer need to hop around in my apartment with crutches to grab something and worry about whether I would accidentally fall when doing so. I had someone to cook for me, do my laundry, and dump the trash. I was a lazy pig in heaven.

As time goes by, however, problems started to emerge. They're all pretty trivial things like how to arrange certain objects. Not painful, but quite annoying. The upside is that I would almost always have a long conversation with my mom after each disagreement, which had fostered mutual understanding between us. However, a gloomy feeling lingered in my heart as I realized that I am no longer a kid anymore. And I believe it is similar to my mom as well.

Seven years ago, I came to a completely unfamiliar country for college and left my parents' umbrella. More than 7000 miles apart, I got used to hiding negative feelings and telling my parents exclusively about positive experiences realizing that there would be little they could do except worrying about me if I did it the other way around. To be honest, I did not even contact them that often back then as college life was always busy. But I didn't truly feel that I was separated from my parents since I did make sure I would return home once a year, and every time I returned home, everything felt the same. My parents would always wait for me at the airport, take over my luggage naturally when they see me, and hand over some snacks just in case I get hungry after the 15-hour flight. And whenever I returned to my little pink bedroom with Miffy curtains, I felt nothing has changed. I was even quite thrilled to see that my parents got closer after I left home. Growing up, I always believed that they had spent too much effort on me since I am the only child in the family. I tried many times to persuade them to shift their focus to each other more since they will be accompanying each other for the rest of their life. You can probably imagine how I felt when I first found out that they would hold hands on the street, go to the movie theater once in a while, and travel together more frequently. 

It is not until I graduated from college that I realized that my parents are getting older. Before we came back to China, I took my parents to travel around the east coast. It was shocking for me to notice how my used-to-be meticulous mom could forget her tote on the bench we had sat on. She had never made this type of mistake before, only I would. The role of my parents and me shifted. In the past, my parents planned out everything in detail and took me to see the world. Now they would rely on me due to lack of proficiency in English. I suddenly recalled that my mom never wanted me to study aboard or even engineering in the first place. If I chose to stay, they would always be able to help.

I will be lying if I tell you I have never wondered whether coming to the United States is the right choice because the other path looks so much easier. I still remember seeing someone complaining on social media that her dad was late for an hour to pick her up from campus back home, and I thought: "You don't realize how lucky you are." For a long time, I struggled with culture shock, language barriers, and food sick. However, I can tell you that I don't regret it. As it's always through experiencing the undesired, we find the treasures in our lives. 

What I learned from the trip, though, is that I should be more open with my parents about my experiences, whether positive or negative because they care no matter what. So I did in grad school. Then I realized that the love from my parents is unconditional, and even strangers would care about my happiness and well-being. So I started to wonder what makes us lose trust over other people as we grow up? Is it rational to hide in our shells after being hurt, or wearing masks in front of strangers? I did not have the answers at the time.

But life works magically, it'll always put you into situations to help you figure out your answers. So I decided to fight my fears, which led to many conversations with my mom and this blog.

My mom and I are quite distinct in terms of personalities. I am quite sensitive and intuitive, often having trouble expressing my feelings and solidifying my ideas. On the other hand, my mom is straightforward and can sometimes unintentionally say things that hurt me. Our differences created many hiccups in our conversations as I can misunderstand her intentions, and most of the time, she is not aware of the spaghetti in my head. 

Some of our conversations could be quite painful as my mom realized I had become an adult who would eventually build my own nest somewhere else in the future. There's not much I could do to change that except figuring out the right balance between my own private time and quality time with the family. Nevertheless, those conversations are well worth the time because I became more aware of my parents' experiences growing up and their limitations while raising me, which helped me let go of many childhood wounds. 

I also realized that I could influence my parents positively because: a) They care about me. b) Some of my ideas are at their blind spots so I could open a new door for them. Of course, it's also a two-way street, which reinforced that I made the right choice opening up.

So, can I be 'Peter Pan' forever?

My answer is, I could, and I would strive to protect the child inside me forever. However, I believe life is way more rewarding by standing up from where we fall and facing our fears.



Final note: my experience might not resonate with everyone as China's one-child policy and culture create an atypical phenomenon: the diminishing boundaries between children and parents in many families. It has its benefits as the bonds between family members could be stronger. On the other hand, many people are suffering from over-interferences from parents.



