---
layout: post
title: "Labels, Stereotypes, and Defaults."
description: "Some thoughts after finishing the book 'Talking to Strangers'."
tags: [thoughts]
---

Last Wednesday, while I was walking along a scenic trail somewhere near San Mateo, I finished listening to the book "Talking to Strangers" by Malcolm Gladwell. In the first few chapters, the book talks about how most people "default to truth" when meeting strangers. That is, we tend to trust whatever others tell us until we have enough evidence that he/she is not. And we judge whether someone is lying by observing their facial expressions, which could be very erroneous, peculiarly when the observees do not fall into the "standards". On average, a human being is only correct at telling if someone is lying at a 54% chance, which is not much better than taking a random guess. And this rate does not vary much, no matter if the observer has received special training.

This "default to truth" behavior works well most of the time, as it promotes mutual trust and increases overall societal efficiency. In the latter half of the book, the author also mentions how "default to false" could be disastrous in certain scenarios. A lack of mutual trust could quickly elevate things that could have been solved peacefully. However, in rare cases, "default to truth" and assuming that strangers are 'transparent' also means that we will likely miss the identifications of a criminal or mischarge a guilt-free person. 

These ideas are quite thought-provoking to me. I have noticed my tendency to trust strangers. Past experiences taught me how harmful it could be for not defaulting to truth. However, I am puzzled that we human beings know that we are complicated creatures when we are looking at ourselves, but we tend to believe that we can make sense of others when we barely know them? It reminds me of all the stereotypes and labels we give each other, or even on ourselves. Why do we hold stereotypes? Is it a biologically evolved way to avoid dangers based on statistical data or patterns we concluded from past experiences? Or is it a way to save energy and help us predict other human beings more efficiently?

People who know me understand that I have a distaste for stereotypes and labels. Mostly because growing up, I've never been the "ideal" girl. I wore short hair and was frequently mistaken for a boy when I was a kid. I was the only girl running and climbing trees with other boys in the community I lived in. I had a lot of fun playing with chili peppers and getting "burned" afterward by touching my eyes and face, walking on ice and accidentally stepping into cold water by breaking the ice, and learning new tricks for roller-skating, getting bruises on my knees. At the same time, I enjoyed sewing new dresses for my dolls, and hugging with my stuffed animal friends. I was fortunate since my parents had never tried to 'correct' me in any sense, even though many of my behaviors didn't align with society's expectations. Therefore, I rarely thought that I was different. (Though I was occasionally bothered by the comments that I looked like a boy). After I started going to school, however, I witnessed a lot more cases when people got judged for being different, even they had not done anything that would harm others. 

And if you ask me, what's my least favorite question. It would be "Where are you from?". I had so many struggles answering this question. As to give a decently correct answer, I need to explain a lot of things. Are you asking about where I have lived for the longest time? Where was I born? Where was my dad's from? Where was my mom from? Or Where do I live now? The answers to each question would be different. And honestly, I don't think knowing where I am from would give someone enough signals on my personality. I get it, sometimes questions like this act like a conversation starter, so I've resigned to the default answer that I am from Shanghai, though I don't identify myself as Shanghainese. And I found it hilarious when people from other provinces or cities in China other than Shanghai commented that "You don't feel like a Shanghainese at all!", and how this comment is viewed as the 'best' compliment a person from Shanghai could get. 

So, back to the previous question, what's the purpose of stereotypes? If it's a mechanism that our brains develop over time to increase efficiency and avoid risks, can it serve the purpose? I do not mean to deny its usefulness under extreme conditions when we lack the capability to reason. Yet, I cannot help but think that the most significant failures and surprises usually come from the outliers. It is effortless to fall into the trap when we meet someone who fits perfectly into our expectations that we think we "know" this person so well. Not understanding that:
1. People can change or lie.
2. People are complicated. What you see might only be what they want you to see.
3. Environments can have significant impacts on people's words and actions.

Of course, here I am not saying that we shall be super suspicious about every person we meet and every action he/she takes, since I don't believe a person can make any meaningful connections if he/she is walking on ice all the time. What is crucial is to recognize that each individual is unique and complicated. Liking stuffed animals does not make a guy any more girlish, and climbing trees does not make a girl more tomboyish. We all have both feminine and masculine (unfortunately, words are mostly binary) traits within us, and we shall embrace them all. And it is that I have to regularly remind myself never to think that I can make sense of a stranger based on his/her solely her words, body language, and facial expressions, or to judge his/her based on societal expectations.