---
layout: post
title: "Personality tests"
description: "Some common myths and my take on it."
tags: [thoughts]
---
For a very long time, I saw personality tests nothing but disguised astrology. I remember back in college, there was a time when 16 personalities test got viral, and almost everyone in my social circle was posting their personality types. Being quite an immature and rebellious kid who did not enjoy following the crowd, I thought to myself, how is it possible to classify personalities into only 16 types when human beings are just so complicated in nature? Not to mention that most people struggle to obtain an accurate image of their personality traits and are mostly unaware of their intentions behind their behaviors. So I sniffed at the test and skipped the personality test party. Then, somehow last winter I just kept seeing the concept of personality tests, from YouTubers and blogs that I followed to books that I was reading. So, I decided to be open-minded and see what people are advocating for. 

Just to put it out there, my personality is INFJ/5w4. The interesting thing is, when I first did the personality test from the 16 personalities [website](https://www.16personalities.com/), I was typed as an INTJ. And when I read INTJ's description, part of me resonated, and part of me didn't. To test the surveys' reliability, I took the tests several times in 6 months. The results I got were: INTJ, INFJ, INFJ, INTJ with a relatively stable score in all aspects except for F/T. So I thought: "Great! This is to confirm that this personality test is not reliable at all!", and put them to the back of my mind again. Though I have to admit that I was startled the first time I took the test to see how they already anticipated that INTJ would be skeptical about personality tests. 

I was stuck with the INTJ/INFJ limbo for several months until someone more familiar with MBTI told me, "No, You can't be two types at the same time, and your personality type does not change as you grow up under normal conditions." (This [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D63H5TNWnfQ&feature=youtu.be&fbclid=IwAR26qIG3nlzEPA0ixwKOfZgdtYptt2tlkOQDPZHbc03N0bACsUdixkYK0zM) does a pretty good job explaining why.) He introduced me to the concept of cognitive functions. Then MBTI started to make more sense to me, and I began my own research to finally decide that I am an INFJ according to Myers Briggs.

So, what did I get from this whole process? The first thing I did after figuring out my personality type is to look for the weaknesses of INFJs on Quora and Youtube. Why did I choose not to fully believe the report from 16 personalities website? Because to me, it has twisted the true nature of MBTI by not mentioning cognitive functions and is less trustworthy compared to the massive data I could gather from the whole group of people identified as INFJ out there on the internet. I mean, there could still be individuals who got mistyped, but with enough data, I could find the underlying patterns that are robust to outliers. And I was shocked about what I had unearthed in the end because they accurately described things I had struggled with since childhood. Recognizing the potential reasons behind my behaviors helped me conquer many of my fears and raised my awareness to work toward self-improvement.

During this process, I felt less lonely as I recognized that there are numerous people out there who care about similar things I do and share similar struggles. Here, I am not claiming that only INFJs suffer. We all have experienced difficult moments in our lives but over slightly different things. At least for me, it was soothing to know that I might get a response other than "Can you stop worrying too much?" or "Why can't you be more practical?" from another person in the world when I am lost. 

The test also provides me a framework to better understand my friends and family so that it's easier to prevent potential misunderstandings that may arise in communications. 

However, personality tests are still limited and shall never be used as the strict rules during human interactions because being a particular personality type guarantees nothing about a person. How a person would behave is primarily related to how well developed each of his/her cognitive function is (if you're still in the personality jargon), how mature and healthy this person is, and his/her unique experiences growing up as an **individual**.

Furthermore, it's dangerous to box oneself in a fixed concept as it could potentially hinder personal growth and induce more bias. In the end, any personality analysis is meant to serve as a tool to help you overcome your dark side and become a better person. 